---
layout: post
title: "Testing day 2023"
date: 2023-11-02 11:45:00 +0100
categories: blog
author: Niels Doorn
tags: [presentation]
...

On the [Testing days 2023](http://testdag.nl/) I will give a talk about test modelling using an online web based modelling tool. This is the text for the program on the website.

## Sensemaking in test modelling with TestCompass

In the dynamic landscape of software development, testing has emerged as the most commonly used technique for measuring software quality. Despite its significance, software testing often receives insufficient attention in computer science education, leading to suboptimal testing practices among students and graduates. 

Teaching software testing is a complex intellectual activity for which students need to allocate multiple cognitive resources at the same time. 
A systematically developed body of knowledge of didactic approaches, effects of educational settings, and learning outcomes is lacking.

As a first step in determining how software testing education can be improved, we have studied the sensemaking process of students designing test cases using an online modelling tool. We continue this research by studying the approaches taken by test experts when designing test cases. 
By comparing students to these experts, we will know where the deficiencies lie for them and what we need to train them on.
We can use this knowledge to develop instructional designs that can be used in different educational contexts.

To address this issue, the presentation will shed light on the intricate process of teaching software testing.

**Key Highlights:**

- Unveiling the challenges associated with teaching software testing in educational settings.
- Exploring the multifaceted cognitive demands placed on students during software testing education.
- Examining the existing gap in didactic approaches and learning outcomes in software testing education.
- Insightful comparison between student-generated test cases and those created by seasoned test experts.
- Identifying deficiencies and opportunities for improvement in software testing education.
- Future prospects of developing innovative instructional designs to enhance software testing proficiency.

This presentation marks a significant stride toward bridging the gap between theory and practice in software testing education. Join us as we uncover valuable insights that will pave the way for a more effective approach to teaching this essential skill.

**About the Speaker:**

Niels Doorn is a dedicated PhD Student at the Open Universiteit, specializing in software testing methodologies. His dual role as a Team Leader and Lecturer / Researcher at the NHL Stenden University of Applied Sciences reflects his commitment to advancing computer science education. With a keen focus on improving software testing practices, Niels brings a unique perspective to the table.



