---
layout: post
title: 38th Conference on Software Engineering and Education (CSEE&T) 
date: 2026-07-21 07:00:00 +0200
categories: blog
author: Niels Doorn
tags: [conference, presentation, Italy, Florence]
...

This summer holiday is turning out to be a very interesting working holiday so far. Earlier I [reported](https://research.nielsdoorn.nl/blog/2026/07/06/SUMMERSCHOOL.html) about the great time I had at the Prague Summer School on the future of schools, the last few days I have been doing something completely different, namely working as a Red Cross volunteer on one of the larger festivals of The Netherlands, the "Zwarte Cross" (translates to "Black Cross" where cross refers to the motorcross which is an important part of the festival). So I was working at the Black Cross for the Red Cross haha! After three intense days and versy short nights, it is now time to travel to Florence, Italy, for the 
Conference on Software Engineering and Education (CSEE&T), to present our accepted article called "Learning Critical Testing Literacy Through Puzzles: An Experience Report" (pre-print can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.20129)). Due to my other commitment, I will only be able to attend the second day of the conference. In this post I describe my experiences.

## Day 2: Tuesday
There is still a lot of debate on how AI is shaping education. The keynote talked about AI augmented engineering, human-ai collaboration, the ethics, and the impact. The role as a teacher changes because of these developments. The point of the presenter is that we should move from _preparing students in using AI+ to them _leading with AI_, however, a major problem to achieve this is the gap between industry and education. Most forms of IT education struggle to have a authentic environment. The presenter proposes more collaboration with industry and the use of AI as a partner during the development process. What I missed in the talk was the learning. What happens to how students learn when partnering with AI? I understand that we should not ignore the use of AI, but I like my students to have the knowledge and skills required to develop without AI, just as I like pilots knowing how to fly a plane despite using auto pilot most of the time. The presenter does agree with that, however, what does means for the CS curriculum and for learning it self, stays, in my opinion, vague. The presenter argues that AI should be included in all subjects of the curriculum, and that it should be the foundation of Software Engineering education. This way, universities can _lead_ the way into using AI. 

### Posters
Four posters are presented at the conference, one of them by my colleague and co-author Bart Th. Knaack. Allthough I am slightly biased, his poster looked really good. His poster is about testing, the others addressed topics related to supporting students with code comprehension, drafting systematic literature reviews, and tutoring in programming education. I always like looking at and reading posters, creating good posters is an art in my opinion. Also, getting your poster at a conference un-wrinkled, and hanging your poster stable and straight is an underestimated skill no LLM can help you with.

### Parallel sessions II-B: Programming Education, Debugging, and Learning Tools
One of the talks was about debugging, linting, and testing Scratch projects. Existing tools have there own problems regarding learning. The researchers developed a extension to Scratch with debugging tutorials. In the tutorial, bugs in an existing Scratch game are shown and step by step they can be fixed. Tests are run after each fix, and feedbak is given. Also, help can be requested, after which hints are given. The tutorial is very interactive and completely in style with Scratch. I like that it incorporates many educational best-practices and that it creates a useful addition to the Scratch eco-system.

### Parallel sessions III

### Parallel sessions IV-C Project-Based and Experiential Learning 
In this track was our presentation.

(to be continued)

